What do you look forward to?
As one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
you look forward to perfection.
You look forward to eternal life
in a beautiful paradise earth.
However, with all of this
wonderful future before us,
what about in the meantime?
We suffer from crime.
We suffer from natural disasters,
this pandemic we suffer from,
sickness, poverty, war,
and other calamities.
In fact, as the Scriptures
mention in Romans:
“All creation
keeps on groaning together.”
So the question comes up,
and this is something
we want you to reflect on.
It’s a thought-provoking question:
Should the rest of our days
in this wicked system of things
be defined by grief?
No!
Absolutely not.
We don’t want
the remainder of our time
to be controlled
by all the problems and the grief
that mankind is suffering.
Jehovah wants us,
even during these times,
to enjoy our lives while we wait
for the fulfillment
of his prophecies
and his promises to us
(now, we’re going to establish
that for you Scripturally),
even though hardship befalls us
before the great tribulation
and during the great tribulation.
Notice this Scriptural counsel found
in the Bible book of Habakkuk.
Habakkuk chapter 3,
and we’re going to read
verses 17 and 18:
“Although the fig tree may not blossom,
“and there may be no fruit on the vines;
“although the olive crop may fail,
“and the fields may produce no food;
“although the flock
may disappear from the pen,
“and there may be no cattle in the stalls;
“[dire circumstances
—don’t you agree?—but notice verse 18]
“yet, as for me,
“I will exalt in Jehovah;
I will be joyful
in the God of my salvation.”
Even during these dire circumstances,
he was able to say
(with all of this going on):
“As for me, I will exalt in Jehovah.”
And not, “I hope I can,”
but “I will exult in Jehovah;
I will be joyful
in the God of my salvation.”
So it’s, really, his close friendship
with Jehovah God that enables him
to still have joy.
And that’s the theme of this talk,
“Close Friendship With Jehovah
Brings the Greatest Joy!”
So while we’re waiting patiently,
Jehovah wants us to rejoice.
The world can’t understand that reasoning,
but that’s what Jehovah wants for his people
—just a wonderful promise for us to focus on.
Now, the psalmist helps us to appreciate
that this isn’t just some dream
—to have a close friendship
with the Sovereign of the universe,
the Almighty God.
No, notice here in Psalm 25.
So we’ll read that together,
Psalm 25,
and this is a Scriptural assurance.
Notice verse 14:
“Close friendship with Jehovah
belongs to those who fear him,
and he makes his covenant
known to them.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
“Close friendship with Jehovah”
—it’s possible.
It’s a reality.
He teaches us.
We’re not just dreaming when we speak
about having this close friendship
with Jehovah God.
It’s a wonderful,
wonderful reality that we enjoy.
And it brings such joy
to have this closeness with Jehovah God.
Now, what helps with this
(being able to make sure
we have this close friendship)
comes down to acquiring
the “mental disposition” of Jesus.
No one has ever been closer
to Jehovah than Jesus
—prehuman existence,
during his earthly ministry,
and upon his resurrection
—so close to Jehovah.
So for us to really capture
how we can have
a close friendship with Jehovah,
we need to learn to think
and feel like Jesus did and still does.
So when we imitate his example,
it increases our joy.
So in this talk, we’re going to discuss
two aspects of Jesus’ mental disposition.
The first aspect
is how Jesus
showed unselfish love
and how that drew him close to his Father.
He found absolute joy
in showing neighborly love
and doing good to others.
Notice this artwork here, please.
Jesus gave from his heart unselfishly.
Imagine Jesus’ feelings
when he met someone who needed help.
You see Jesus and the joy of helping others.
It’s just very evident.
And the closeness with his Father
—they could see it.
The disciples rejoiced.
What a perfect example
of being close to Jehovah!
And the result?
Joy.
So that’s what we want to keep in mind.
And Jesus set that example for us.
By being generous, Jesus taught us
to practice what he did,
practice what he preached and taught.
Notice here in Luke chapter 6,
and we learn because he lived this.
He had such freeness of speech
to make these things
clear to those who listened to him.
Luke chapter 6
—and talk about being generous!
Jesus obviously was.
But notice verse 38 of Luke chapter 6:
“Practice giving,
and people will give to you.
“They will pour into your laps
a fine measure, pressed down,
“shaken together, and overflowing.
“For with the measure
that you are measuring out,
they will measure out to you in return.”
So, a beautiful lesson here:
Be generous.
Jesus was so generous with his time
and all the things he did with his disciples.
And the lesson being:
The measure you show
in the way of being generous
—it comes in return.
So sometimes people in the world
—they have stated things.
I know I heard these things when I
first became one of Jehovah’s Witnesses:
“You people—you don’t celebrate holidays.
You’re stingy.”
Nothing could be further from the truth.
We don’t celebrate holidays
that offend our God,
the one we love and worship.
So just because we
don’t celebrate these holidays
where there’s gift-giving
doesn’t mean we’re not generous.
We’re happy to give gifts.
We enjoy giving
because that’s what Jehovah
wants us to do.
We look for opportunities to be generous.
Now, keep your Bibles here at Luke chapter 6.
We need to be patient with each other.
There are some things
we’re going to discuss here.
I need to apply the counsel,
and we’re passing this on for your benefit
(some things to think about),
and if you see an area where you’d need
to make improvement,
well, by all means, do so.
That’ll keep you close to Jehovah,
and you’ll have abundant,
great joy as a result
of applying his counsel.
Now, in verse 37
(right before verse 38)
notice: “Moreover,
“stop judging, and you
will by no means be judged;
“and stop condemning,
and you will by no means be condemned.
Keep on forgiving,
and you will be forgiven.”
So, very priceless counsel
on the need to be forgiving
—Jehovah and Jesus certainly are.
He also (you’ll notice in verse 37)
stated: “Stop judging.”
Just stop it!
He didn’t say: “Don’t judge.”
He said: “Stop judging.”
Why?
Because that’s imperfect human inclination
—to judge, to judge others.
Sometimes even in the congregation,
some can become overly critical.
They can become resentful, envious.
And envy is so destructive.
Somebody might have materialistic prosperity;
they might enjoy privileges
that you don’t have in the congregation;
others might find them very endearing,
and so envy can creep in.
And, frankly, it’s unhealthy physically
and spiritually.
And notice what I
mean by that with this proverb.
Find Proverbs, if you would, please.
And the inspired counsel
is very, very clear.
Proverbs 14 and the 30th verse:
“A calm heart gives life
to the body, [now notice]
“but jealousy
[or envy, these other things]
is rottenness to the bones.”
If your bones are rotten
and the bone is so important
(all the bones in our body)
toward good physical health,
then the same thing spiritually.
If we’re jealous,
it’s rottenness to us
in a spiritual way as well.
The thing is that Jehovah doesn’t feel
he would be wanting
this close friendship with somebody
who has this issue and doesn’t work on it,
doesn’t work to correct it.
So when we work on thinking
about some of these things,
we can actually personally increase
the joy in our congregation.
And that takes us
to another Scriptural thought
that we want to address here in this talk
about having a close friendship with Jehovah.
Notice 1 Peter chapter 4,
and you’ll remember this verse
(most of you listening),
1 Peter chapter 4,
and verse 15,
1 Peter 4:15:
“However, let none of you
suffer as a murderer
“or a thief or a wrongdoer
[now notice]
or a busybody
in other people’s matters.”
So, obviously,
murder and being a thief
—these are terrible sins
against Jehovah God.
But right after that,
he mentions “a busybody.”
Now, literally in the original language
(and this has always helped me
with this inspired thought),
“a busybody” is literally “overseer
of what is another’s.”
What does that tell you?
Well, if it’s
not your responsibility to oversee
this particular issue,
then you can keep in mind the need
to mind your own business.
The Scriptures are against busybodies.
They disturb the peace of congregations;
they interfere with the congregations
enjoying the joy.
So we refrain from imposing
our uninspired opinions on others
or debating about matters of personal choice.
Do you have some concerns?
Talk to Jehovah God about it.
But if it’s a personal concern,
don’t be a busybody.
The Scriptures are very clear.
Stay away from that
—developing this negative spirit
that could disrupt the peace
of the congregation.
Now, as you watch the following video,
notice how our sister
worked at becoming more positive
and that by doing so,
she increased her joy.
I’ve had a lifelong struggle
with a negative attitude.
My negative disposition
made me a very impatient,
sarcastic, and demanding person.
One day, out in field service,
I had insulted a partner of mine,
and the entire day was ruined.
My mother was in the car.
She was very upset with the situation.
She told me that I had a negative attitude
and that I was not allowed inside the house
until that sister forgave me.
So I asked the sister to lunch.
It was one of the most difficult
and uncomfortable situations I have been in.
I realized that I needed
to make a self-examination.
Why was I negative?
Why was I so unhappy?
It was because I stopped pioneering
and my friends continued
in their full-time service to Jehovah.
And that made me very frustrated,
to see them continue this while I was stuck.
When I acknowledged
that I had this negative attitude,
that prompted me to beg Jehovah
to help me to make changes.
The friends in the congregation who I spent
a lot of time with were not bad people.
Their imperfection
fueled my negative attitude,
and I really had to put that fire out.
Personal study was a major help,
along with my prayers to Jehovah,
to make these changes.
One of the things that I meditated on
was how Jesus acted with his disciples.
When he was hungry and he was tired,
he was still very loving and kind.
So I saw for myself
that when I was spiritually hungry,
that affected my words and my actions
toward the brothers and sisters.
The keys to maintaining
Jesus’ mental disposition are prayer,
gratitude, and contentment.
My goal is to show
a grateful attitude
for the blessings that I receive
every day and also to look
for the good in people
—to show them that I care and I love them.
And I’ve learned that the more that I
give to the friends
and to my family,
the happier that makes Jehovah,
as Acts 20:35
and Hebrews 13:16 mention.
And when Jehovah is happy,
that really makes me happy.
Very thought-provoking video,
don’t you agree?
Now, you’ll notice
what lessons she learned
(and we all benefit from it):
prayer,
gratitude, contentment
—beautiful that she could see that.
And when you have prayer
coupled with gratitude,
and then you show and display contentment,
you stay close to Jehovah.
And that brings great joy
because we applied the counsel.
Now, the second point
that we’re going to discuss in this talk is:
Using practical wisdom
increases our joy.
So we made it clear that we want
to show unselfish love as Jesus did.
Now we’re talking about practical wisdom
and how that increases our joy.
Jesus knew
how important this counsel was.
He taught his disciples
that when it comes to treasures,
‘store up treasures in heaven,
because where your treasure is,
that’s where your heart is going to be.’
So he made that very clear,
trying to help them to appreciate
living a practical, simple life.
Now, notice here in this artwork how Jesus
is showing his disciples this
and how much joy they have
applying that counsel
about keeping it simple.
Jesus knew that storing up
“treasures in heaven” brings joy.
Imagine the joy Jesus found
in sharing life’s simple pleasures
with others.
So they enjoyed their surroundings.
They are rejoicing.
Nobody is comparing
(who has a certain amount of gold).
No, this is just enjoying life
because of their close relationship
with Jehovah God.
Now, by keeping our life simple,
we trust that Jehovah
will provide for our needs.
And something I’ve said for years:
“Remember, Jehovah provides
for our needs, not our greeds.”
So if we’re content
with the needs Jehovah provides for us,
we can experience great joy.
We want to avoid distractions
that could take us away
from wholeheartedly serving
our heavenly Father
or could even start to distance us from him.
The Bible is filled with practical wisdom
about physical health,
finances, family life.
And when this counsel is applied,
it can in many cases prevent problems
or at least minimize them,
even in these difficult last days.
And the Scriptures are very clear
that when we really peer
into Jehovah’s Word
(and it’s been referred to
in the Bible book of James as “a mirror”),
here’s the benefit.
Now, you will remember this
in James chapter 1.
And how much we appreciate the wisdom
that is found here at James chapter 1,
and verse 25!
James 1:25: “But the one
who peers into the perfect law
“that belongs to freedom
and continues in it
“has become, not a forgetful hearer,
but a doer of the work;
and he will be happy in what he does.”
So when we take the time
to look into Jehovah’s Word
—“peer” in—
it’s not just a glance.
We’re peering “into the perfect law,”
but then we ‘continue in it.’
We don’t read it and say,
“Oh, that was interesting”
and then go off and forget it.
No, a ‘doer of the word’
—that means there’s application
of what we just read.
And the result?
We “will be happy”—guaranteed!
That’s what Jehovah promises.
But it has to be applied
to have this benefit.
Now, there’s a beautiful proverb.
And this is personal for all of us too.
I need to apply it,
just like all of you listening.
I need to do likewise
—Proverbs chapter 15.
And this can happen
especially in these critical last days
that are coming and continuing
to get worse and worse.
But I’ve always loved this proverb,
and it’s helped me for decades,
and I think many of you
would agree that it’s helped you.
And if not, then benefit
from the wisdom here at Proverbs 15,
and let’s read verse 15:
“All the days of the afflicted one are bad,
“but the one with a cheerful heart
has a continual feast.”
Now, we need to let that sink in.
“All the days”—so this means
day after day with this negative attitude
(“poor me, poor me,
one affliction after the other”)
like the sister
in the video we saw earlier,
just absorbed with negative things.
But then it’s contrasted
with having “a cheerful heart,”
and that’s like having a feast.
So mentally and emotionally,
we’re going to benefit
from not needlessly focusing
on the afflictions
and the things that we deal with.
That connects with what we
earlier talked about: prayer, gratitude,
and contentment.
So, agonizing over problems
that are beyond our control
does not please God.
We do the best we can
with our circumstances.
But to be daily afflicted
and agonizing over these things
that we really have no control over
—we do the best we can
to resolve our problems.
Try to focus on the more productive things.
What can we do?
What are the positive things?
And this isn’t just
some psychological endeavor.
This is Scriptural direction
—Scriptural advice—
and when applied, it really works.
Jehovah blesses our efforts.
If you think about it
(and especially as I’m older now,
I can relate to it),
some of you older ones,
just keep in mind
that just because you’re tired
doesn’t mean
you don’t love Jehovah,
that you’re not close to him.
Things have changed.
So keep your close friendship with him,
and don’t dwell on the afflictions
of being elderly.
It’s not healthy spiritually or physically.
Jehovah will help us
to get through these times.
Now, what will help too
is to take the thinking down another path,
and there’s a psalm here
that I want to share with you
—Psalm 77.
So if you’ll find Psalm 77,
and this is some more beautiful,
inspired advice
—Psalm 77—
here in the 12th verse:
“And I will meditate on all your activity
and ponder over your dealings.”
Again, it’s another one of those verses
where we need to pause
and think about it,
talking about the times we’re living in.
So we must ‘meditate on Jehovah’s activity’;
we’ll come back to that in a moment.
But “ponder over your dealings”
—what would that maybe mean?
Well, Jehovah—how does he deal
with his servants?
How does he deal with us?
He’s kind.
And don’t you love being around somebody
that’s reasonable and kind?
The way they deal
with others—they’re kind.
Well, when they’re that way,
they’re really imitating
how close they are to Jehovah,
because he’s kind
when he deals with us
—and we’re so grateful for that!
And talking about ‘meditating
on the activity,’
well, think about creation
and what Jehovah has done with creation.
People who accept evolution
—they couldn’t do such.
They couldn’t find any benefit from creation
because they don’t believe in creation.
‘All of this just happened.’
Not so for us when we
look at creation
—something as simple as
(this does make Jehovah
happy when we do it)
a beautiful flower or a bouquet of flowers.
You know, sometimes the world—
They start these businesses,
and they have these fake flowers,
and some of them look pretty good.
But compare it to a real flower.
I’ve seen some make these roses
that look pretty good,
but I don’t smell
what I smell with a real rose.
The whole thing with a beautiful rose
is it just makes you reflect on the Creator.
And something that has always
been a treasure for me
is that when you can capture
a beautiful sunset
—might be a sunrise
or might be a sunset—
it just causes people
to go “Wow!”
And some of them stop
and think about God.
Whether they believe in him
or not, it just stuns them.
And shortly after we had moved here
to headquarters in Warwick, I remember
just a few days after being here,
we had some rain and such.
But then when I took a picture of it,
it had a beautiful rainbow.
I took a picture of it with my tablet.
How can you not feel good and refreshed
by looking at such activity of Jehovah God?
A beautiful, beautiful rainbow.
And then there are the antics of animals.
I love dogs.
I love puppies and kittens
and the things they do.
And sometimes they’re able
to capture them on video.
It just causes joy in the heart.
So find joy more in all of the creation
of the animals.
But most of all, find joy
in your relationship with Jehovah God.
Now, with that in mind,
notice how our brother
uses practical wisdom
in the following video.
I had a stable job at a local resort,
but I later lost this job.
I tried to look for work,
but I was unsuccessful.
My savings ran out.
We had run out of money
to buy gas for cooking.
It felt like my world had ended.
I did some research in the publications.
I found that I was able to follow the example
of some brothers who had found
that they were able to start businesses
using the skills and abilities that they had.
I was able to use a fishing net that I owned,
go down to the sea (to the river),
and put the net out in the evening.
Early in the morning,
I would go down
and be able to find fish
and crabs in the net.
It was not easy.
I did not always get
a good catch, but by doing this,
eventually I was able
to support my family during that time.
We had to cook outside on a fire.
I thought about how I could help
my family to stay positive.
We would sit together, and we
would sing Kingdom songs
and play games together.
And I feel that Jehovah
blessed the efforts that I made.
Hebrews 13:5
—that scripture reassured me
that as long as I didn’t compromise
the important aspects of Jehovah’s worship,
my family’s needs would be cared for.
I’ve always admired the beauty
and power of the sea.
It reminds me of the One
who created the sea.
It’s not hard for him to care
for just one small human like me.
What nice application of the counsel
to have practical wisdom and of the benefits!
Now, I encourage you to keep in mind
what we’ve discussed here:
showing the neighborly love
that Jesus showed
and the joy he experienced from that
and then using the practical wisdom
that Jesus taught us about
so that we stay close to Jehovah
and not get distracted with things
that the world is absorbed with.
Now, to help us completely capture
this mental inclination of Jesus
especially in the days ahead,
we want you to find Hebrews chapter 12.
And many know this verse
and have benefited,
but it certainly applies to our discussion
about a close friendship
with Jehovah bringing great joy.
Hebrews chapter 12,
and you’ll notice here,
verse 2:
“. . . as we look intently
“at the Chief Agent and Perfecter
of our faith, Jesus.
“For the joy that was set before him
“he endured a torture stake,
despising shame,
and has sat down
at the right hand of the throne of God.”
Beautiful counsel
—and this is what we need to do:
“Look intently at the Chief Agent,”
Christ Jesus.
And when you’re looking
at something intently,
that means you’re looking away
from everything else.
You’re focused.
“Look intently” in these last days
“at the Chief Agent,” Jesus.
Now, what we learn!
Because when you think
about what he went through
—the torture stake,
as mentioned here;
that three-and-a-half-year ministry
with those hypocrites
(those religious hypocrites,
attacking him with their lies and slander);
and then those final days
of his earthly life
and especially those final hours
and then those hours on the torture stake
—he knew what was coming, the details.
How does a man deal with that
without collapsing?
Well, we’re not left to wonder.
“For the joy that was set before him
he endured” all that.
So Jesus had the prehuman existence,
but the joy of sitting with his Father
again in the heavens
—oh, my!—
that got him through it.
Same for us, brothers—the joy
will get us through it,
the joy of staying close with our God.
And finally, this last verse
for this closing talk is here
in Romans chapter 12,
two sentences from this 12th verse here
—Romans 12:12—
and take this to heart:
“Rejoice in the hope.
Endure under tribulation.”
So while waiting for the fulfillment
of all of Jehovah’s promises
and the things that we have to deal with,
remember how Jesus dealt with it.
Just cling to Jehovah.
Have that close relationship with him,
and you will experience the greatest joy!